welcome to the man of recaps we're
talking house of cards season 1 meet
Frank Underwood he's a congressman
they're celebrating the election of the
new president Walker now Frank's a
pretty nice guy his hobbies include
eating ribs playing call of duty and
strangling dogs that have been hit by
cars to put them out of their misery
Frank had a deal with the new President
to make him Secretary of State but as
chief of staff Linda says sorry deal's
off we need you in Congress Frank's like
okay I'll play nice for now but he has a
secret smoke meeting with his wife
Claire underwood and he's like we're
going to destroy them and Claire's like
all right that's what I like to hear so
the plot is afoot now meet Zoe Barnes
she's a stereotypical young reporter who
wants to break some real stories one day
she goes to the Opera wearing the thong
and catches this unfortunate picture of
Frank uses it's blackmail and she's like
I just want a source inside Washington
to feed me cool stories and Frank's like
you know I think I can help you out the
first item on the President's agenda is
an education reform bill as Majority
Whip Frank's job is to oversee it make
sure it passes Congress the guy they
have writing it though Donald Blythe is
very liberal so the first draft of the
bill completely unusable but Frank's
chief of staff Douglas Stamper he's not
afraid to get his hands dirty
Frank sends him to the dumpster to pull
out the bill and he gives it to Zoe
Barnes who then prints it so when the
president's inaugurated immediately the
article comes out that his education
bill is terrible undermining his
presidency so Donald life is off the
bill Frank's in charge now but of course
he gives it to some interns to write
because he has more important things to
do like taking down the actual Secretary
of State nominee Michael Kern Doug digs
into his past and finds an article from
his college paper where he was an editor
that's very anti-israel but they need
someone else to go investigate further
and that guy is Junior Congressman Peter
Russo Peter's not a very good
congressman he hasn't done much except
for have an affair with his secretary in
fact it's more than an affair they are
boyfriend and girlfriend he does like
though driving drunk around the
prostitutes that's his hobby so does
pull some strings and gets him out of
jail and Frank's like hey you're welcome
but now I own you and Peter's like what
and he's like I own you so when the call
comes in in the middle of the night
Peter has no choice but to go they're
sending him to meet with the guy who
wrote the article he's living in a
trailer now kind of a crazy dude and he
says no Michael Kurt had nothing to do
with the article I wrote it on myself
and he's like what'd you say he did if I
give you this fat joint and he's like
yeah I can work with that so when the
story breaks Michael Kern freezes up he
has no idea what to say and basically
he's not going to be Secretary of State
anymore but Frank doesn't want Secretary
of State he's got a much bigger plan he
tells Zoey to print that it's going to
be for
longtime political ally Cathy Durant and
because though he printed it becomes
true zoe by the way doing a lot of TV
now ah she's breaking good stories and
she's super hot her boss hammerschmidt
doesn't like that he can't control her
anymore so when she defies his orders he
calls her a very bad word which he then
tweets out to the world so she's totally
fired but it's okay she gets a better
job anyway at a cool online newspaper
around this time Frank gets a sidequest
from his home district in South Carolina
some teenager was killed because she was
distracted by the Giant Peach statue
that kind of looks like a dick now this
is being sensationalized by Frank's
longtime rival so Frank has to work some
local politics get the grieving family
on his side and it's not relevant to the
story but he shuts this guy down hard
Frank's college also names a new library
after him he meets up with his old
acapella buddies and they have a wild
trunk at night where it's heavily
implied that he had a gay relationship
with one of them back in college so
that's interesting
back to business though the education
bill is ready and Frank's trying to get
it passed but the Speaker of the House
Bob birch is holding out so Frank has to
enlist Terry Womack the leader of the
Black Caucus who says he's definitely
down to support it if he can keep his
Naval Base open in his home district
Leslie there's a naval base that can
close instead in Peter Russo's home
district Frank's tells him to close it
and keep liked that was my entire
campaign platform was keeping it open
and Frank's like I know that's a shame
so when the hearing happens people like
I guess you can close it and he goes on
a drinking binge because he's very
depressed now meet Remy Danton
he's a high-powered lobbyist for a huge
natural gas corporation he actually used
to work with Frank back in the day as
his campaign manager now in case you're
unfamiliar with the US political system
lobbyists represent corporate interests
to politicians basically the corporation
donate lots of money to their campaigns
and the lobbyists go and make sure that
the politicians are doing what
corporations want
it's a weird system but it's what we've
got anyway Remy and Frank had a deal
where when he became Secretary of State
he was going to open drilling rights
somewhere and in exchange his company
was going to donate lots of money to
Frank's wife Claire's a natural clean
water campaign but since it didn't
happen Claire had to fire all of her
employees Frank gets the new Secretary
of State Cathy Durant to hold up the
deal so the money's back on but Frank is
Claire turned it down because he doesn't
want to be beholden to anyone right now
so to raise money claire has a big
fundraiser but it's being protested by
the teachers union because Frank screwed
them on the education bill they shut the
Provost down pretty quickly though by
feeding them Zoe Barnes comes to the
fundraiser and in case you were
wondering yes their relationship did get
sexual it's no secret affair though
Claire and Frank share everything so we
told her immediately
and she's like oh if you get this nice
piece on the side I'm going to reconnect
with my hot photographer friend and go
on like a week-long sex bender but
anyway the teachers are on strike now
and one night a brick is thrown through
Frank's window they want to fire
Frank security guard Edward Meechum but
Frank ours to keep him on in exchange
for his unwavering loyalty but the brick
is very bad pressed for the teachers so
their rent meets with Frank and Frankie
confesses he had done throw the brick
and then he basically tells the guy to
lick my balls the guy punches him in the
face and now he's assaulted the US
congressman so he has no choice but to
end the strike and the bill gets signed
and Frankie gets all the credit now the
Democrats need a candidate for governor
of Pennsylvania because the current vice
president held that position and Frank
thinks it should be his puppet Peter
Russo but Pete's pretty pissed at him
right now about the whole shipyard
closing thing he comes to his house one
day to tell him off so Frank gives him a
bath and a razor to slit his wrists and
he's like look to yourself or be
governor of Pennsylvania it's your call
Russo decides to run for governor the
plan is to confess to being an alcoholic
but sweep the cocaine and hookers under
the rug the problem is the people of
Pennsylvania hate him because he closed
the shipyard and they're all out of work
so he has to go to Pennsylvania style
and fight his best friend and meet
everyone at sports bar so now they all
sort of support him again so he's
working on a bill with Claire to do a
clean water initiative that will bring a
lot of jobs to the area problem is Remy
Danton in the national gas company pay
off everyone to not support the bill
Frank intimidates enough people to get
the votes but Claire has some water
filters or something stuck overseas and
Cathy can't help so she goes to Remy
who's like yeah my company can't help
but we need you to kill the clean water
bill so Claire goes behind Frank's back
to get some guys to oppose her own bill
and when it doesn't pass Frank is pissed
but he's a flexible guy so he pivots
instead of going for clean water
it's time to go for drilling he sets him
up with Remy who's like yeah we'll give
you all the money you need you'll be
governor for sure and Rousseau is like I
should have just done this in the first
place just then hot chick shows up
it's Rachel the prostitute he was caught
with at the beginning of the season Doug
Stamper tracked her down and paid her to
keep her mouth shut but they stayed in
touch any kind of like sir so he set her
up in an apartment and they have a weird
sugar daddy like father daughter but he
likes her sexually been going on so doug
has her seduce Peter Russo and get him
to start drinking again he's like I
guess one little Curt oh my god it's
morning he has an important radio
interview that morning where he is still
very obviously drunk and his campaign is
now over so Peter goes on his biggest
bender yet he wants to confess to
everything so Frank's like you know what
confess in the morning just drink
yourself to sleep for now and he does
and Frank wipes down his finger
prints and start the engine and closes
the garage door on and what if you don't
know that's a way people kill themselves
with the fumes carbon monoxide poisoning
this still fright just killed a guy we
knew he was ruthless but now he's
murdered the final part of Frank's plan
is to convince the current vice
president to step down and run for
governor of Pennsylvania again this is
sort of crazy but the election is really
close and they don't have any better
options so they go along with it now
Frank wants to be vice president but the
president has another guy in mind it's
the billionaire business tycoon Raymond
tusk Frank goes down to bed him but tusk
confesses that he's actually a close
friend and confidant of the presidents
and he's there to vet Frank he offers to
make Frank vice president and then Frank
will owe him and Frank like I don't know
people people owe me so he turns him
down now somewhere along the line though
we decided to end her affair with Frank
she actually starts seeing her other
reporter friend Lucas Goodwin and
another reporter is looking into Frank's
corruption and sort of tell Zoe you know
I think Frank is the bad guy the three
of them start connecting the dots and
they managed to track down Rachel Rachel
keeps their mouth shut though because
she's friends with and or scared of Doug
meanwhile Frank and Lester Evans helped
take down tusk
but Remy starts to work for him instead
because he can pay a lot of money so he
arranges the secret meeting with tusk in
the barbecue joint tusks like hey you
ready to be vice-president yet and oh me
and Frank's like no but you're going to
make me vice-president anyway because
you don't have any other choice so Frank
Underwood lied cheated and killed his
way into the vice presidency and that's
how season 1 comes to an end thanks for
watching the man of recap
stay tuned for House of Cards season 2
check out my other cool videos for even
more sweet recap action